When will we stop worrying about the Karaf legacy? The entire point of this is to get to where we can delete it now that the Minion is also Spring
Boot 4.

⏺ You're right — I've been treating Karaf coexistence as a given when it's the thing we're trying to kill. Let me save that as a clear directive.

  Read 1 file, recalled 1 memory, wrote 2 memories (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Fair point, and I should have seen it sooner. The insight I wrote about "split-package strategy supporting both Karaf and Spring Boot" was exactly the
   wrong framing — there's no Karaf consumer left.

  Let me think concretely about what "delete Karaf" means. Let me check what's actually still depending on the legacy modules:

⏺ Explore(Audit Karaf/legacy dependencies)
  ⎿  Done (40 tool uses · 44.7k tokens · 3m 26s)
  (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ That's the full picture. Here's the honest assessment:

  The Karaf surface area is enormous — 1,028 bundle-packaged modules, 362 blueprint XMLs, the entire container/ directory, and the opennms-full-assembly
   distribution pipeline. But most of it is now dead infrastructure — no runtime consumer uses it.

  The practical question is: what's the fastest path to deleting it?

  What's already done:
  - All 12 daemons are Spring Boot 4
  - Minion is Spring Boot 4
  - Legacy webapp is deleted
  - opennms-services is deleted
  - Docker pipeline builds from daemon boot JARs, not Karaf assembly

  What the Karaf infrastructure actually does today:
  - <packaging>bundle</packaging> + maven-bundle-plugin — generates OSGi manifests that nothing reads
  - Blueprint XMLs — service wiring that no container loads
  - container/ + opennms-full-assembly — builds a Karaf distribution that nobody deploys
  - Feature XMLs — dependency declarations for a container that doesn't run

  So the real blockers to deletion are:
  1. POM surgery: 1,028 modules need <packaging>bundle</packaging> → <packaging>jar</packaging> and maven-bundle-plugin removed. This is mechanical but
  massive.
  2. opennms-model deletion: Replace with model-jakarta. ~12 entities still need porting (per your memory on jakarta consolidation).
  3. opennms-config deletion: Replace remaining consumers with config-model + daemon-local implementations (like we just did with DaemonEventConfDao).
  4. Blueprint deletion: 362 files. Pure deletion — nothing reads them.
  5. container/ + assembly deletion: Entire directories. Pure deletion.
  6. Build script cleanup: Makefile, assemble.pl references to Karaf assembly.

  Items 4-6 are just git rm. Items 1-3 are the real work.

  Want me to plan this as a series of PRs? The fastest approach would be:
  1. PR A: Delete container/, opennms-full-assembly, opennms-base-assembly, blueprint XMLs, and build scripts — pure deletion, no code changes
  2. PR B: Convert all 1,028 POMs from bundle → jar packaging (scripted)
  3. PR C: Finish the model-jakarta entity port (12 remaining), then delete opennms-model
  4. PR D: Delete opennms-config, replacing remaining consumers

✻ Sautéed for 4m 30s

❯ Yes, please.

⏺ Skill(superpowers:brainstorming)
  ⎿  Successfully loaded skill

⏺ I already have extensive context from the exploration we just did and from memory. Let me verify a few critical details to make sure the design is
  grounded in reality.

⏺ 2 Explore agents finished (ctrl+o to expand)
   ├─ Audit what still imports from legacy modules · 37 tool uses · 74.2k tokens
   │  ⎿  Done
   └─ Check what opennms-config consumers remain · 31 tool uses · 42.0k tokens
      ⎿  Done

⏺ Good context. The picture is clear now. This is a large-scope effort that needs decomposition into sub-projects. Before I propose approaches, one
  question:

  The daemon boot modules still use 21 classes from opennms-config — factories like SnmpPeerFactory, PollerConfigFactory, CollectdConfigFactory, etc.
  These are the heavyweight XML-file-reading configuration singletons from the Karaf era. When we delete opennms-config, those need replacements.

  What's your preference for config loading in the Spring Boot world?

  - (A) JDBC-based config loading — configs already in PostgreSQL (like eventconf), read them with JdbcTemplate. This is the pattern
  EventConfEnrichmentService uses today.
  - (B) Spring Boot application.yml / properties — externalize config to standard Spring Boot config files. Daemon-specific settings in
  /opt/deltav/etc/daemon-name.yml.
  - (C) Keep the existing XML config files but load them with lightweight Spring Boot beans — replace the factory singletons with @Configuration beans
  that read the same XML. Less migration, but keeps the XML format.
  - (D) Mix — JDBC for configs that are in the DB (eventconf, provisiond), Spring Boot properties for simple settings (trapd port, syslogd port), keep
  XML readers only for genuinely complex configs (SNMP peer table, poller packages).

  My recommendation is (D). Pure JDBC or pure properties won't cover the complexity of something like snmp-config.xml (SNMP community strings per IP
  range), but simple daemon tunables shouldn't require XML factories.

✻ Cogitated for 2m 50s

❯ I would go with D with the following caveats that we should keep around for reference so that we don't make the same mistake we made with attempting
to keep the legacy karaf code compatible:

1. Let's be sure that these configuration changes are all documented extremely well.
2. I strongly wish that the current move to database configurations for eventconf had not happened before I forked OpenNMS. At somepoint in the future,
 I want us to remove those configuration from the database and put them back to documents that we can manage with Git. This will better support CI/CD
and as well as allowing us to "tag" versions so that each container could be deployed with it's own version. This is a stretch goal for the project.
3. We setting properties in the code for Spring Boot properties, I prefer to use the "@Value" annotations in configuration classes in config packages.

Let me know what you think about these caveats and how that aligns with your recommendation of (D).

⏺ These caveats align well and sharpen the design. Let me respond to each:

  1. Documentation — Agreed completely. Each config migration needs a clear "before → after" mapping. When someone looks at the old snmp-config.xml and
  wonders where it went, there should be a single place that answers that.

  2. Eventconf back to files — This is a really good architectural instinct. Database-stored configs break GitOps: you can't diff them, can't version
  them, can't deploy them atomically with the container image. The current DB-based eventconf was upstream's choice, not yours. For the spec, I'll mark
  the current JDBC eventconf loading as a transitional pattern — it works today and we won't break it, but the future target is file-based eventconf
  loaded at container startup. That also means when we design the file-based config loaders (like for SNMP peers, poller packages), we should build them
   in a way that eventconf could eventually use the same pattern.

  3. @Value in config packages — Clear and standard. So the pattern would be:

  // core/daemon-boot-trapd/.../config/TrapdProperties.java
  @Configuration
  public class TrapdProperties {
      @Value("${opennms.trapd.listen-address:0.0.0.0}")
      private String listenAddress;

      @Value("${opennms.trapd.port:1162}")
      private int port;
      // ...
  }

  Rather than @ConfigurationProperties prefix binding. That keeps each property explicit and greppable.

  One thing I want to confirm before proposing approaches — this will be the first design question on scope:

  This Karaf removal is at least 4 independent sub-projects (dead infrastructure deletion, POM packaging conversion, opennms-model elimination,
  opennms-config replacement). Each is a multi-PR effort. Do you want me to spec the entire Karaf removal as one design doc covering all phases, or spec
   just the first phase (dead infrastructure deletion) and iterate?

  My recommendation: one design doc covering all phases at a high level with detailed spec for Phase 1, then separate specs for each subsequent phase as
   we get there. That way we have the full roadmap but don't over-specify phases that might shift based on what we learn.

❯ I agree with your recommendation.

⏺ Good. Let me propose the approaches for the overall Karaf removal strategy, then we'll drill into Phase 1.

  Approaches

  Approach A: Bottom-up (dependencies first)
  Start by eliminating opennms-model and opennms-config — the modules that cause the most friction today. Then delete the Karaf infrastructure once
  nothing depends on it.
  - Pro: Fixes the painful compile/runtime issues immediately.
  - Con: You're working on the hardest parts first while 1,028 dead bundle packaging declarations and 362 blueprint XMLs clutter every git grep. The
  dead code makes every other change harder to reason about.

  Approach B: Top-down (dead infrastructure first)
  Delete everything that has zero runtime consumers first: container/, assembly modules, blueprint XMLs, Karaf feature files, bundle packaging. Then
  tackle opennms-model and opennms-config with a clean codebase.
  - Pro: Massive noise reduction immediately. Every subsequent PR touches fewer files and is easier to review. Build times drop.
  - Con: Doesn't fix the opennms-model/opennms-config pain points right away.

  Approach C (Recommended): Top-down with parallel config work
  Phase 1: Delete dead Karaf infrastructure (container/, assemblies, blueprints, feature XMLs).
  Phase 2: Convert 1,028 POMs from bundle → jar packaging (scripted, mechanical).
  Phase 3: Eliminate opennms-model — finish porting remaining entities to model-jakarta, then delete.
  Phase 4: Eliminate opennms-config — replace factory singletons with Spring Boot config beans (JDBC for DB configs, file-based readers for XML configs,
   @Value for simple properties).

  This is approach B's ordering but with a clear roadmap for the hard parts. The key insight: Phases 1-2 are pure deletion/mechanical changes that can
  land fast in big PRs. Phases 3-4 require design per module and land as focused PRs.

  My recommendation is C. Clean the workspace first so the hard work happens in a codebase that isn't full of dead Karaf artifacts. Does this ordering
  make sense to you, or would you rather tackle the dependency pain points sooner?

❯ Definitely C.

⏺ Let me present the design section by section. I'll start with the overall structure, then drill into Phase 1.

  ---
  Overall Architecture: Karaf Removal Roadmap

  4 phases, each independently shippable:

  ┌───────┬──────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬──────────┐
  │ Phase │               What               │           Type            │ Est. PRs │
  ├───────┼──────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ 1     │ Delete dead Karaf infrastructure │ Pure deletion             │ 1-2      │
  ├───────┼──────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ 2     │ Convert bundle → jar packaging   │ Mechanical/scripted       │ 1        │
  ├───────┼──────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ 3     │ Eliminate opennms-model          │ Entity porting + deletion │ 3-4      │
  ├───────┼──────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ 4     │ Eliminate opennms-config         │ Config bean replacement   │ 6-8      │
  └───────┴──────────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┴──────────┘

  Dependency order: Phase 1 → 2 are independent of 3 → 4. Phases 1 and 2 could even be a single PR if the diff is reviewable. Phases 3 and 4 can proceed
   in parallel after 2 lands.

  Config philosophy (from our discussion):
  - JDBC: Only for configs that are currently in the database (eventconf). Treated as transitional — future goal is file-based.
  - File-based XML readers: For complex configs (snmp-config.xml, poller packages, collection packages). Lightweight @Configuration beans, not factory
  singletons.
  - @Value in config classes: For simple daemon properties (ports, intervals, thread counts). In config packages within each daemon-boot module.
  - Documentation: Every config migration gets a before→after mapping in a central doc.

  Does this high-level structure look right before I detail Phase 1?

❯ Yes.

⏺ Good. Now the detailed design for Phase 1.

  ---
  Phase 1: Delete Dead Karaf Infrastructure

  Goal: Remove everything that has zero runtime consumers. No code changes to anything that still runs — pure deletion.

  What gets deleted:

  1a. Container directory (container/)

  All 15 subdirectories: branding/, bridge/, extender/, features/, jaas-login-module/, karaf/, noop-jetty-extension/, servlet/, shared/,
  spring-extender/, and the feature XML files (features.xml, features-core.xml, features-minion.xml, features-sentinel.xml, etc.). This is the heart of
  the Karaf OSGi container. Nothing loads it.

  1b. Assembly modules

  - opennms-full-assembly/ — Karaf distribution assembly
  - opennms-base-assembly/ — base distribution components
  - opennms-assemblies/ — Karaf-related assembly sub-modules (Minion, Sentinel)
  - assemble.pl — Perl wrapper for Karaf assembly build

  1c. Blueprint XML files

  362 blueprint.xml / *-context.xml files under OSGI-INF/ directories throughout the source tree. These are OSGi service wiring — no Spring Boot daemon
  reads them. Pure git rm.

  1d. Karaf-specific top-level modules

  - opennms-bootstrap/ — Karaf bootstrap launcher
  - opennms-jetty/ — Jetty integration for Karaf container
  - opennms-install/ — Karaf-era installer scripts
  - opennms-config-tester/ — config validation tool built for the Karaf runtime

  1e. Build script cleanup

  - Remove assemble target from Makefile
  - Remove Karaf-assembly references from compile.pl
  - Clean up runtests.sh if it references Karaf assembly paths

  1f. Parent POM cleanup

  - Remove container/ from <modules> in root pom.xml
  - Remove opennms-full-assembly, opennms-base-assembly, opennms-assemblies from <modules>
  - Remove deleted modules from <modules> (bootstrap, jetty, install, config-tester)
  - Remove karafVersion, maven.karaf.plugin.version properties if no longer referenced

  What does NOT get deleted in Phase 1:
  - opennms-model/ — still a compile dependency of daemon-common and model-jakarta (Phase 3)
  - opennms-config/ — still used by 9 daemon boot modules for factory classes (Phase 4)
  - opennms-dao/, opennms-dao-api/ — still used by daemons for DAO interfaces
  - <packaging>bundle</packaging> in POMs — mechanical change in Phase 2
  - maven-bundle-plugin declarations — Phase 2
  - Any module that is still a compile/runtime dependency of a daemon boot module

  Verification: After deletion, make build must still succeed. All 12 daemon boot JARs must still compile. The Docker pipeline (build.sh deltav) must
  still produce working containers.

  Risk: The main risk is accidentally deleting a module that something still depends on transitively. Mitigation: run mvn dependency:tree on all
  daemon-boot modules before and after, diff the output.

  ---
  Does Phase 1 look complete and correctly scoped? Anything I'm including that should stay, or missing that should go?

❯ Should we try to run the e2e tests to find these transitive dependencies at runtime?

⏺ Yes — that's the right verification. Compile success doesn't catch runtime classloading issues (as we just learned with DefaultEventConfDao). The E2E
  tests exercise the actual daemon startup in Docker, which is where missing transitive dependencies surface.

  The verification plan for Phase 1 should be:

  1. make build — compile succeeds
  2. build.sh deltav — all 12 daemon boot JARs assemble
  3. deploy.sh up full — all 12 containers start and pass /actuator/health
  4. Run all 6 E2E tests (trapd, alarmd, pollerd, collectd, enlinkd, provisiond) — runtime behavior intact

  If an E2E test catches a transitive dependency on a deleted module, that tells us the module wasn't actually dead and we need to either keep it or
  replace the dependency before deletion.

  One thing worth noting: Phase 1 is deleting container infrastructure and wiring (blueprints, feature XMLs, Karaf assembly), not library modules. The
  transitive dependency risk is lower here than in Phases 3-4. But running E2E after is still the right discipline — it's cheap insurance.

  I'll include this as the verification gate in the spec. Does the rest of the Phase 1 design look good to move forward with writing the spec doc?

❯ Ready. Let's lean towards replacing vs. keeping the dependency.
